# Super-Shoes
Do the recent innovations in running shoe technology enhance performance?
In 2020, Nike released the ZoomX Dragonfly and the Air Zoom Victory track spikes.  The following months saw numerous records shattered across high school, college, and professional track and field, prompting followers of the sport to question whether the spikes provided an unfair performance boost.  These shoes featured extreme technological advancements in the form of Nike’s ZoomX foam and carbon fiber plates, first seen in the Vaporfly 4%.  ZoomX foam is both extremely lightweight and resilient, meaning that much of the force that a runner exerts on the ground is returned to them as they stride forward.  The carbon fiber plate, which sits below the foot, further saves energy by flexing and rebounding as the foot strikes and leaves the ground.  These factors come together in the Dragonfly and Victory to reduce the amount of energy expended by a runner during each step, producing large benefits over a distance race in which a runner takes thousands of steps.  As a former collegiate distance runner and statistician, I set out to see for myself just how "super" these spikes were.  My first approach included fitting machine learning algorithms and assessing their ability to classify an athlete’s performance as one run with or without super spikes.  This was done as a project for an Applied Statistical Learning course, hence the use of machine learning algorithms.  In the future, I aim to use more traditional statistical techniques and a much larger, more comprehensive dataset to produce a clearer answer.  I will continute to update this file as I make progress on this project.
